# Git Practice

# **How Gamers Get Creative to Game in the Tech Desert of Jamaica**

###### **Article link**: https://www.wired.com/story/jamaica-is-a-tech-desert-gamers-make-it-work-anyway/

I find this article extremely interesting because it discusses how gaming streamers in Jamaica have to adjust to the nicknamed "tech desert" environment of living in Jamaica. Even though Jamaica seems like a blissful destination with warm beaches and lively culture, when it comes to access to technlogy, Jamaica falters. This digital divide between Jamaica and first world areas like the US or Europe becomes evident when examining the gaming industry. Gaming streamers like Andrew Johnson, cofounder and vice president of the Jamaican Esports Initiative team, find upgrading and maintaining the quality of their streams extremely difficult due to barriers such as high costs of high-end graphics cards, webcams, low minimum wage, high costs of imported technology, unstable internet connections, and slow upload speeds provided by ISPs. To get around such poor bandwith, Jamaican streamers will go live during "off hours" like 6pm to 6am. Not only are gamers extremely negatively impacted by the Jamaican technological desert, but also education was left behind during COVID, with little access to digital education resources. While it was troubling to read such an in depth article regarding the struggles of Jamaicans when trying to access seemingly basic technology as an American, it was illuminating to understand how gamers are so attached to their craft that they will sacrifice sleep and pay for higher prices just to provide comparable high quality streams as these streamers' American and/or European counterparts.

## Azanah's Changes 

I think this article is interesting because it offers a different perspective than I'm used to when it comes to the internet. In the United States I think of the internet as a public resource, even if you do not have the money to buy a computer or phone yourself you can go to a public library to access the internet. It is interesting to read about a case where the internet is not avalible because of poor bandwith. I think as more of the worlds economy and politics are run by the internet the case for access to it as a human right becomes stronger and stronger.